README.md, before:

# git-delete-merged-branches

A convenient command-line tool helping you keep repositories clean.


# Installation

```console
pip install git-delete-merged-branches
```


# Example

```console
# git-delete-merged-branches
You are about to delete 6 local branch(es):
  - improve-setup-py
  - issue-12-enable-ci-for-pull-requests
  - issue-5-fix-waste-of-one-second-per-service
  - keep-github-actions-up-to-date
  - refactoring-one
  - simple-ci

Delete? [y/N] y
You are about to delete 6 remote branch(es):
  - origin/improve-setup-py
  - origin/issue-12-enable-ci-for-pull-requests
  - origin/issue-5-fix-waste-of-one-second-per-service
  - origin/keep-github-actions-up-to-date
  - origin/refactoring-one
  - origin/simple-ci

Delete? [y/N] y
To github.com:hartwork/wait-for-it.git
 - [deleted]         improve-setup-py
 - [deleted]         issue-12-enable-ci-for-pull-requests
 - [deleted]         issue-5-fix-waste-of-one-second-per-service
 - [deleted]         keep-github-actions-up-to-date
 - [deleted]         refactoring-one
 - [deleted]         simple-ci
```


# Features

- Supports deletion of both local and remote branches
- Supports workflows with multiple release branches, e.g. only delete branches that have been merged to *all* of `master`, `dev`  and `staging`
- Quick interactive configuration
- Provider agnostic: Works with GitHub, GitLab and any other Git hosting
- Takes safety seriously


# Safety

Deletion is a sharp knife that requires care.
While `git reflog` would have your back in most cases,
`git-delete-merged-branches` takes safety seriously.

Here's what `git-delete-merged-branches` does for your safety:
- No branches are deleted without confirmation or passing `--yes`.
- Confirmation defaults to "no"; plain `[Enter]`/`[Return]` does not delete.
- `git push` is used with `--force-with-lease` so if the server and you have a different understanding of that branch, it is not deleted.
- There is no use of `os.system` or shell code to go wrong.
- With `--dry-run` you can get a feel for the changes that `git-delete-merged-branches` would be making to your branches.
- Show any Git commands run using `--verbose`.


# Best Practices

When the repository is a fork:
- consider keeping your local `master` up to date (by making it a tracking branch or by using `git pull`).
- consider keeping your fork's remote `master` up to date (using `git push`).


# Support

Please report any bugs that you find.

Like this tool?  Support it with a star!

Commit message:

Run "git pull --ff-only" when confirmed, as well

README.md, after:

# git-delete-merged-branches

A convenient command-line tool helping you keep repositories clean.


# Installation

```console
pip install git-delete-merged-branches
```


# Example

```console
# git-delete-merged-branches
You are about to delete 6 local branch(es):
  - improve-setup-py
  - issue-12-enable-ci-for-pull-requests
  - issue-5-fix-waste-of-one-second-per-service
  - keep-github-actions-up-to-date
  - refactoring-one
  - simple-ci

Delete? [y/N] y
You are about to delete 6 remote branch(es):
  - origin/improve-setup-py
  - origin/issue-12-enable-ci-for-pull-requests
  - origin/issue-5-fix-waste-of-one-second-per-service
  - origin/keep-github-actions-up-to-date
  - origin/refactoring-one
  - origin/simple-ci

Delete? [y/N] y
To github.com:hartwork/wait-for-it.git
 - [deleted]         improve-setup-py
 - [deleted]         issue-12-enable-ci-for-pull-requests
 - [deleted]         issue-5-fix-waste-of-one-second-per-service
 - [deleted]         keep-github-actions-up-to-date
 - [deleted]         refactoring-one
 - [deleted]         simple-ci
```


# Features

- Supports deletion of both local and remote branches
- Supports workflows with multiple release branches, e.g. only delete branches that have been merged to *all* of `master`, `dev`  and `staging`
- Quick interactive configuration
- Provider agnostic: Works with GitHub, GitLab and any other Git hosting
- Takes safety seriously


# Safety

Deletion is a sharp knife that requires care.
While `git reflog` would have your back in most cases,
`git-delete-merged-branches` takes safety seriously.

Here's what `git-delete-merged-branches` does for your safety:
- No branches are deleted without confirmation or passing `--yes`.
- Confirmation defaults to "no"; plain `[Enter]`/`[Return]` does not delete.
- `git push` is used with `--force-with-lease` so if the server and you have a different understanding of that branch, it is not deleted.
- There is no use of `os.system` or shell code to go wrong.
- With `--dry-run` you can get a feel for the changes that `git-delete-merged-branches` would be making to your branches.
- Show any Git commands run using `--verbose`.


# Best Practices

When the repository is a fork
(with an upstream remote and a fork remote):

- Make sure that release branches are tracking the right remote,
  e.g. `master` should probably track original upstream's `m̀aster`
  rather than `master` of your fork.
- Consider keeping your fork's remote `master` up to date (using `git push`).


# Support

Please report any bugs that you find.

Like this tool?  Support it with a star!
